#summary aMatter Requirements
@@[Home] -> [ProjectPlanning] -> [aMatterRequirements]

Contents:
<wiki:toc max_depth="2"/>
----

= Overall Features =

== Mocked Functions ==

  * M-01. *aMatter* has *<font color="green">primitive predefined set of effectors</font>* producing representation in external world based on *<font color="green">predefined set of low-level commands</font>* provided by hardcoded motor strategies
  * M-02. *aMatter* limits effectors actions to ones *<font color="green">explaining internal representations</font>* by means of *<font color="green">hardcoded symbolical language</font>*
  * M-03. *aMatter* has *<font color="green">primitive predefined hierarchy of behavioural strategies</font>*, on leaf level directly connected with effectors commands

== Cognition ==

  * C-01. *aMatter* receives information using *<font color="green">predefined set of sensors</font>*
  * C-02. *aMatter* *<font color="green">recognises</font>* received information in real-time mode and calculates recognition *<font color="green">metric R</font>* reflecting percentage of successfully recognised sensors inputs in given environment
  * C-03. *aMatter* *<font color="green">generalises</font>* unrecognised inputs so that R monotonously increases for the same static environment
  * C-04. *aMatter* forms growing set of internal entities, so that specific subset of *<font color="green">internal entities</font>*, when being in active state, can be treated as a representation of specific external data from sensors, disregarding whether previously perceived or internally inspired
  * C-05. *aMatter* is able to *<font color="green">forget</font>* internal entities, if not activated for a long time, so that the same input *<font color="green">triggers</font>* another set of internal entities after a while
  * C-06. *aMatter* forms growing set of *<font color="green">associations</font>* between internal entities activated about the same time

== Feeling ==

  * F-01. *aMatter* collects information from *<font color="green">predefined set of embodiment signals</font>* equivalent in purpose with human being, with body treated as related operating system process with all its inherent features and properties
  * F-02. *aMatter* collects *<font color="green">predefined set of uncertainty metrics</font>* from expectation flow of behavioural strategies

= Goals Achievement =

== Perception/Self-Learning features == 

  * Effective Signal Processing
   * MindSensorArea - execute receptive field averaging and inhibition
   * ThalamusArea - create relay sensory nuclei - *done*
   * ThalamusArea - create inhibitory NeuroPool
   * Connect PerceptionArea feedback and inhibitory NeuroPool
   * Connect internal InhibitiryNeuroLink from relay NeuroPool and inhibitory NeuroPool
  * Mock cortex implementation - to allow development of other components
   * create feed-forward NeuroPool - *done*
   * create spatial pooler - process feed-forward signal from ThalamusArea - *done*
   * create temporal pooler - process fixed-size sequences and derive predicted spatial pooler item - *done*
   * create feedback NeuroPool
   * apply temporal pooler prediction to feedback NeuroPool
  * Cortex implementation
   * Columnar processing
   * Hierarchical Processing
   * Infinite Temporal Prediciton
   * Focus Processing
   * Attention Processing
   * Event Driven Implementation

== Cognition as Meaningful Sensor Control ==

  * TBD

== Demonstrate Feeling Feature ==

  * TBD

== Real-Time Neural Networks ==

  * Neural Structures
   * NeuroPool - accumulate arriving action potentials in membrane potential - *done*
   * NeuroPool - time-based dissolving of membrane potential - *done*
   * NeuroPool - postpone firing to minimum time interval after last firing - *done*
  * Signal Processing
   * ExcitatoryLink - project excitatory signal to NeuroPool - *done*
   * ExcitatoryLink - generate excited signal from projection - *done*
   * NeuroSignal - store only activated source items - *done*