#summary Human Brain Areas

@@[Home] -> [ArtificialLifeResearch] -> [HumanBrainAreas]
----

== Top Level Divisions ==

*Structure*:

Frontal Lobe - Central Sulcus (valley) , Insula - Parietal and Occipital Lobes

*Description*:
  * *Frontal Lobe* - an area in the brain of humans and other mammals, located at the front of each cerebral hemisphere and positioned anterior to (in front of) the parietal lobes and above and anterior to the temporal lobes (i.e. directly behind the forehead or "temple"). It is separated from the parietal lobe by the post-central gyrus primary motor cortex, which controls voluntary movements of specific body parts associated with the precentral gyrus  posteriorly, inferiorly by lateral sulcusslyvian which separates it from the temporal lobe, superiorly by the superior margin of the hemisphere and anteriorly by the frontal pole.

  * *Parietal Lobe* - a part of the brain positioned above (superior to) the occipital lobe and behind (posterior to) the frontal lobe. The parietal lobe integrates sensory information from different modalities, particularly determining spatial sense and navigation. For example, it comprises somatosensory cortex and the dorsal stream of the visual system. This enables regions of the parietal cortex to map objects perceived visually into body coordinate positions.

  * *Occipital Lobe* - the visual processing center of the mammalian brain containing most of the anatomical region of the visual cortex. The primary visual cortex is Brodmann area 17, commonly called V1 (visual one). Human V1 is located on the medial side of the occipital lobe within the calcarine sulcus; the full extent of V1 often continues onto the posterior pole of the occipital lobe. V1 is often also called striate cortex because it can be identified by a large stripe of myelin, the Stria of Gennari. Visually driven regions outside V1 are called extrastriate cortex. There are many extrastriate regions, and these are specialized for different visual tasks, such as visuospatial processing, color discrimination and motion perception. The name derives from the overlying occipital bone, which is named from the Latin oc- + caput, "back of the head".

== Frontal Cortex ==
